Thanks for downloading my Spriting Brushes GIMP Brush pack! I hope they help you out.

---

There are a bunch of small brushes here that should be ideal for sprites and/or pixel art:

4 Squares from 1x1-4x4
2 Checkerboards from 3x3 and 4x4
1 4x4 Circle
3 Backslashes from 2-4 pixels in length
3 Forward Slashes from 2-4 pixels in length
3 Vertical Bars from 2-4 pixels in length
3 Horzontal Bars from 2-4 pixels in length

---

To use these, simply place them in your GIMP brushes folder. The actual directory may vary from system to system.
---

It goes without saying that you should be using the pencil tool with this to ensure that your pixel drawings look sharp and pixely. Otherwise those anti-aliased edges will creep in and it's hard to stay accurate with your brushes.

---

Each colored thumbnail section represents each brush category.

Blue are squares which should make it simple to paint pixels in quickly where you need to fill solid areas. I should also mention that the brush thumbnail is not their actual size. I just increased all of the brush sizes by 3 times so you could see them easier. Their squares represent tiny pixels on the screen. So no brush is bigger than 4 pixels.

In the pink are checkboards used for "shading" as alternating checkerboard pixels are used in limited-palette dradients. If you paint using these in straight horizontal or vertical directions (hold crtl as you make your stroke), the brush spacing I set for them ensures that they will continue stamping in the chekerboard pattern without worry that pixels will touch.

The red is a simple circle which you may find to be the most useful and versatile.

Green are backslashes used to paint pixels at that angle, as well as providing "shading" lines. The same goes for the forward slashes in yellow.

The Brown and olive green are "bars" similar to the slashes, but better in tight lateral spaces.

---

You don't have to use all of the brushes of course. I just made a varied set of brushes to accomplish similar tasks so you may find what you prefer to use.

Have fun!

-PkGam